#Introduction to Eye Disease Prediction Model
Have you ever imagined the horror of realizing on a random Tuesday that you might be losing your sight? Early detection could have saved your vision faster, but eye diseases often go unnoticed due to their silent symptoms. By the time patients seek help, significant vision loss may have already occurred.
With our mini project, "Predicting Eye Diseases Using Deep Learning," we aim to bring a change of eye care services in primary settings. Our goal is to automate and  enable early detection of various eye conditions and integrate our model into telemedicine for remote diagnosis. We used Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) to train our model.  It uses convolutional layers to automatically detect features like edges and patterns in images. These layers apply filters that slide over the image, capturing important details and  also use pooling layers to reduce the size of the data, making processing more efficient. This architecture makes CNNs excellent for tasks like image and video recognition
Our model was trained on a dataset containing 4,217 images of eye diseases such as  cataracts, glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, and normal retinal images. Our custom architecture achieved an accuracy of 93%, with other metrics detailed on our poster.
But we didn't stop there! We've also integrated a chatbot into our application, designed to answer users' queries about eye diseases.It gives causes,symptoms and precautions about the concerned disease.This comprehensive tool has been deployed on Streamlit, making it accessible and user-friendly.
We invite you to join us as we demonstrate our app. How can early detection and remote diagnosis transform eye care? Let's explore the possibilities together!
#Link to Eye Disease Prediction Model
https://mini-project-kix3kn44dnzljhhtacjrwl.streamlit.app/
